# 1. Two Sum
[Two Sum - LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/two-sum/description/)

## Problem Description
Given an array of integers `nums` and an integer `target`, return indices of the two numbers such that they add up to `target`. <br>
You may assume that each input would have exactly one solution, and you may not use the same element twice. <br>
You can return the answer in any order.

For example, <br>
```
Input: nums = [2, 7, 11, 15], target = 9
Output: [0, 1]
Explanation: Because nums[0] + nums[1] == 9, we return [0, 1].
```

Constraints:
1. 2 <= nums.length <= 104
2. -109 <= nums[i] <= 109
3. -109 <= target <= 109
4. Only one valid answer exists.

 
## Understanding (I/O, Constraints)
The problem requires finding two numbers in the given `nums` array that add up to the `target` value. The solution should return the **indices** of these two numbers.

The problem assumes that there is always **EXACTLY ONE** valid solution (so multiple solutions cannot exist), and the same element cannot be used twice. The order of the returned indices does not matter.

The problem also provides the range of each variable, giving a better understanding of the input constraints. The `nums` will have at least 2 elements and at most 104 elements, with each element is within the range of -109 to 109. Besides, the `target` value will also fall within the range -109 to 109.

## Approach
### 1 - Brute Force Approach
The most straightforward approach is the **brute force approach**, which use **nested For loops** to iterate over the `nums` and find the sum of each two elements. Then compare the sum with the `target` value, continuing the loops until we find the elements that add up to the `target`. Once we find a match, we return the indices as the answer.

Implementing this approach is relatively simple, as shown in the following code:
```python
class Solution(object):
    def twoSum(self, nums, target) -> List[int]:
        # iterate over all elements in nums
        for i in range(len(nums)):
            # iterate over elements after the current one
            for j in range(i+1, len(nums)): 
                if nums[i]+nums[j] == target:
                    return [i, j]
        return []
```
The result beats 42.9% in Runtime and 52.5% in Memory.

### 2 - Optimized Approach (Using Hash Table/Dictionary)
Brute Force approach can def solve the problem, but we always want to program to be more efficient (which mean to find the solution that has a time complexity < O(N^2)) <br>
When we need to find whether an element is in a collection, we can consider using **hash table**. Hash table help us to store the values we have already seen so far. So we can do the following:<br>
We iterate over all elements in the `num`. For each element, we check if the `target`-current value exist in the hash table
- If so, we have found the two elements that add up to the `target`, then we return the indices
- If not, we add the current element to the hash table for later reference
By doing this, we can only iterate N elements instead of N^2, resulting in a more efficient solution.

```python
class Solution(object):
    def twoSum(self, nums, target) -> List[int]:
        num_list = {} # create a dictionary for storing elements visited
        for i in range(len(nums)):
            if target-nums[i] in num_list: # check whether the complement exist
                return num_list[target-nums[i]], i
            else:
                num_list[nums[i]] = i
        return []
```

## Complexity Analysis
### 1 - Brute Force Approach
- Time Complexity: O(N^2), Since we have nested loops
- Space Complexity: O(1)

### 2 - Optimized Approach (Using Hash Table/Dictionary):
- Time Complexity: O(N), Since we only have one loop
- Space Complexity: O(N), depending on the size of num_list

## Summary
The most challenging thing for me is determining to utilize a hash table and figuring out which elements to assign as keys and values.
