# 20. Valid Parentheses
- EASY | String, Stack
- [Valid Parentheses - LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/valid-parentheses/)

## Problem Description
Given a string `s` containing just the characters '(', ')', '{', '}', '[' and ']', determine if the input string is valid.

An input string is valid if:

Open brackets must be closed by the same type of brackets.
Open brackets must be closed in the correct order.
Every close bracket has a corresponding open bracket of the same type.

For example, <br>
```
Input: s = "()"
Output: true
```

```
Input: s = "(]"
Output: false
```

Constraints:
1. 1 <= s.length <= 104
2. s consists of parentheses only '()[]{}'.

## Approach
### 1 - Using Stack
To determine if the brackets is valid, we can use a stack. We iterate through the elements of the string. When we encounter an opening bracket (i.e., '(', '{', or '['), we push it into the stack. When we encounter a closing bracket (i.e., ')', '}', or ']'), we check if it matches the top element of the stack (that is, the most recent opening bracket). If it matches, we pop the opening bracket from the stack. If it doesn't match or the stack is empty, indicating that the string is not valid, we return False then. After iterating through all the elements, if the stack is empty, it means that all opening brackets have been matched, so we return True. Otherwise, if there are still elements in the stack, we return False since there is still elements haven't matched.

```python
class Solution:
    def isValid(self, s: str) -> bool:
        stack = []
        for c in s:
            if c in "([{":
                stack.append(c)
            else:
                if (not stack) or (c=="]" and stack[-1]!="[") or (c==")" and stack[-1]!="(") or (c=="}" and stack[-1]!="{"):
                    return False
                else:
                    stack.pop()
        return not stack
```
The solution beats 22.5% in Runtime anad 90.3% in Memory

## Complexity Analysis
### 1 - Using Stack
- Time Complexity: O(N), because it traverse the string once
- Space Complexity: O(N), in the worst case, all elements would be put into stack 

## Notes
This problem involves the use of a stack to check the validity of brackets. 
Initially, I ignored some edge cases and attempted to solve it using simplest if-else conditions. However, I realized the importance of considering the order of brackets and modified the solution. It's important to pay attention to the all possible cases. Additionally, there is room for improvement in the implementation. (First time solving problems with stack, still unfamiliar with it)
