# 217. Contains Duplicate
[Contains Duplicate - LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/contains-duplicate/)

## Problem Description
Given an integer array `nums`, return `true` if any value appears at least twice in the array, and return `false` if every element is distinct. <br>

For example, <br>
```
Input: nums = [1, 2, 3, 1]
Output: True
Explanation: Since 1 appears twice in the array
```

```
Input: nums = [1, 2, 3, 4]
Output: False
```

Constraints:
1. 1 <= `nums.length` <= 105
2. -109 <= nums[i]` <= 109
 
## Understanding (I/O, Constraints)
The problem requires determining if there is any value that appears more than once in the array `nums`. The solution should return a **boolean value** indicating whether duplicates exist or not.

The problem also provides the range for each variable, the `nums` array will have at least 1 element and at most 105 elements, with each element falling within the range of -109 to 109.

## Approach
### 1 - Brute Force Approach [FAIL - TLE]
We can first start with the most straightforward brute force apporach. That is to iterate over all elements in the array and comparing each element with the subsequent elements to check for duplicates. We can implement this approach by using `nested for loops`, as shown in the following code:

```python
class Solution(object):
    def containsDuplicate(self, nums):
        for i in range(len(nums)-1):
            for j in range(i+1, len(nums)):
                if nums[i] == nums[j]:
                    return True
        return False
```
This idea is basically correct. However, it doesn't work in this problem due to the Time Limited Error (TLE).

### 2 - Hash Set Approach [AC]
Recall that we used the Hash approach in the previous problem, so we can use it here as well!: <br>
We iterate over all elements in the `num`. For each element, we check if the element exists in the hash set
- If so, we have found the duplicate and return True
- If not, we put the element in the set and continue the loop 

```python
class Solution(object):
    def containsDuplicate(self, nums):
        num_set = set() #using set because we dont care about index
        for num in nums:
            if num in num_set:
                return True
            num_set.add(num)
        return False
```
The solution beats 90.1% in Runtime and 16.4% in Memory.

### 3 - Sorting Approach [AC]
This is a solution I did not come up with, but I want to record it for future reference. The idea is to sort the array in ascending order and check if adjacent elements are identical. (it's quite smart actually)

```python
class Solution:
    def containsDuplicate(self, nums):
        nums.sort()  # the default sort algorithm in Python is Timsort
        for i in range(0, len(nums) - 1):
            if nums[i] == nums[i + 1]:
                return True
        return False
```
The result beats 6.8% in Runtime and 96.5% in Memory.

## Complexity Analysis
### 1 - Brute Force Approach
- Time Complexity: O(N^2)
- Space Complexity: O(1)

### 2 - Hash Set Approach:
- Time Complexity: O(N)
- Space Complexity: O(N)

### 3 - Sorting Approach
- Time Complexity: O(Nlog(N)) #refer to sorting complexity table
- Space Complexity: O(1)

## Notes
- It is more intuitive to come up with Hash data structure. While using hash could be seen as trade space for efficiency. Because when using hash, we reduce the lookup time while also increase the memory used (depend on the num size we looking for).
- Functions learned: [set.add()](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/set-add-python/)
