# 242. Valid Anagram
- EASY | Hash Table, String, Sorting
- [valid Anagram - LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/valid-anagram/)

## Problem Description
Given two strings `s` and `t`, return true if `t` is an anagram of `s`, and false otherwise.
An Anagram is a word or phrase formed by rearranging the letters of a different word or phrase, typically using all the original letters exactly once.

For example, <br>
```
Input: s = "anagram", t = "nagaram"
Output: True
```

```
Input: s = "rat", t = "car"
Output: False
```

Constraints:
1. 1 <= `s.length`, `t.length` <= 5 * 104
2. `s` and `t` consist of lowercase English letters.
 
## Understanding (I/O, Constraints)
The problem requires to see if given two strings have identical combination. The solution should return **Boolean** value represent if one string formed by rearranging the letters of the other string.
The `s` and `t`are both ranged from 1 to 5*104, and only consist of lowercase letters.

## Approach
### 1 - Hash Table Approach [AC]
We first check if the length of `s` and `t` are equal. If they are differ in length, we can simply return False. And then we use `count` array to record the count of each element in `s`, and iterate all over the `t` and decrements the corresponding count in `count` array. So now we only need to check if the `count==[0]*26` (If so, which means `s` and `t` have completely identical components, so we return True, Otherwise, return False)

```python
class Solution(object):
    def isAnagram(self, s, t):
        if len(s) != len(t):
            return False
        
        count = [0] * 26
        for i in range(len(s)):
            count[ord(s[i]) - ord('a')] += 1

        for i in range(len(t)):
            count[ord(t[i]) - ord('a')] -= 1
        
        if count != [0] * 26:
            return False
        return True
```
The solution beats 66.2% in Runtime anad 10.5% in Memory

## Complexity Analysis
### 1 - Hash Table Approach
- Time Complexity: O(N)
- Space Complexity: O(1)

## Notes
